# SwingPOS
A basic Point Of Sale system developed with Java SE 8 using the Swing GUI development library and MySQL database.

How to run the program:
1-Download the sourcecode
2-Open it in your IDE
3-In your build path configuration include the external jar files (found in the lib folder) for the Database connection and pdf generation 
4-Install a MySQL Database server of your choice
5-Create a new database in your MySQL server
6-Import all the tables from the swing_pos.sql (in the database folder)
7-Run the program from your IDE by running the App.java file in from the src/application folder
  Alternatively, generate a runnable jar file via your IDE
  
How it works:
The program connects to a database first. If running for the first time, the setting panel will open and ask to enter the database server, 
port (if required), username and password, and maximum number of rows displayed in the tables (min 5). Once set, a restart is required.
On restart, if the saved information is correct, the records from the database are shown in the program, and a folder Point_Of_Sale is created in the system-default 
user folder (C:\User\Documents in Windows). The program settings file and the documents generated by the program are saved in this custom-folder.  

NOTE: this is a first version of the program, there are additional functions needed in order to work as a fully-fledged POS system, such as barcode reader, cashier functionality etc.
However, the program does the minimum necessary in order to keep track of suppliers, customers, inventories and sales.
